docs/images/techdocs.md, before:

# Backstage TechDocs Engineering Image

The image contains the full suite of tools required to publish a TechDocs site
in Inventory.

## Usage

The image is designed to run in a repository containing TechDocs.

### Docker compose configuration

Add a `devtools/techdocs.yaml` file to the repository.

```yaml title="devtools/techdocs.yaml"
services:
  techdocs:
    build:
      dockerfile: techdocs.Dockerfile
    working_dir: /srv/workspace
    environment:
      GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: ${GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS:-}
      GCLOUD_PROJECT: ${GCLOUD_PROJECT:-}
    volumes:
      - ../:/srv/workspace:z
      - ${XDG_CACHE_HOME:-xdg-cache-home}:/root/.cache
      - $HOME/.config/gcloud:/root/.config/gcloud
      - ${GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS:-nothing}:${GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS:-/tmp/empty-GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS}
    ports:
      - "127.0.0.1:3000:3000/tcp"
      - "127.0.0.1:8000:8000/tcp"
    command: serve
volumes:
  xdg-cache-home: {}
  nothing: {}
```

```yaml title="docker-compose.yaml"
include:
  - devtools/techdocs.yaml
```

```Dockerfile title="devtools/Dockerfile"
FROM ghcr.io/coopnorge/engineering-docker-images/e0/techdocs:latest@sha256:68ce8f1b1745d587dbd542b1e8d4974eacf513ea2adffa1d566e76cca071417c
```

### Running a preview site

```bash
docker compose up techdocs
```

Open your browser at <http://localhost:3000/docs/default/component/local/>

### List targets

```bash
docker compose run --rm techdocs help
```

## Writing documentation

### Toolbox

- [TechDocs](https://backstage.io/docs/features/techdocs/)
- [MKDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/)

  MKDocs Plugins:

  - [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/)
  - [MkDocs Awesome Pages]
  - [EZLinks](https://github.com/orbikm/mkdocs-ezlinks-plugin)
  - [Kroki](https://kroki.io/)
  - [Table Reader]

- [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- [markdownlint](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint#configuration)
- [Vale](https://vale.sh/)

### Render table data from files

[Table Reader] can render data from `.csv`, `.fwf`, `.json`, `.xlsx`, `.yaml`
and `.tsv` files.

To load a `.csv` file use:

<code>\{\{ read_csv('path_to_table.csv') \}\}</code>

The `path_to_table.csv` is relative to the `docs/` directory in the repository.

## Customize navigation

See [MkDocs Awesome Pages]

## Ignoring rules

Prettier, markdownlint and Vale define rules for style and spelling. Sometimes
rules needs to be broken.

Prettier can be ignored for a specific line or range, by inserting a markdown
comment. For more information see the official [Prettier
ignoring-documentation][prettier-ignores].

```md title="markdown.md"
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
Do   not    format   this

Do format this

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- SOMETHING AUTO-GENERATED BY TOOLS - START -->

| MY | AWESOME | AUTO-GENERATED | TABLE |
|-|-|-|-|
| a | b | c | d |

<!-- SOMETHING AUTO-GENERATED BY TOOLS - END -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
```

markdownlint rules can be controlled by line and for sections. For more
information see the official [markdownlint documentation][markdownlint].

- Disable all rules: `<!-- markdownlint-disable -->`
- Enable all rules: `<!-- markdownlint-enable -->`
- Disable all rules for the current line: `<!-- markdownlint-disable-line -->`
- Disable all rules for the next line: `<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line -->`
- Disable one or more rules by name: `<!-- markdownlint-disable MD001 MD005 -->`
- Enable one or more rules by name: `<!-- markdownlint-enable MD001 MD005 -->`
- Disable one or more rules by name for the current line:
  `<!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD001 MD005 -->`
- Disable one or more rules by name for the next line:
  `<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD001 MD005 -->`
- Capture the current rule configuration: `<!-- markdownlint-capture -->`
- Restore the captured rule configuration: `<!-- markdownlint-restore -->`

Vale rules case be controlled by section, for more information see the official
[Vale documentation](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/config/#markdown-amp-html).

```md title="markdown.md"
<!-- vale off -->

This is some text

more text here...

<!-- vale on -->

<!-- vale Style.Rule = NO -->

This is some text

<!-- vale Style.Rule = YES -->
```

## Known problems and workarounds

### Prettier vs MkDocs Admonitions

An
[admonition](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/)
is written in Markdown like this:

```md
!!! note "Title"

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
    nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
    massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.
```

MkDocs will happily render the admonition whether or not there is a line
separating the `!!! note` and the actual note, but Prettier will incorrectly
format this admonition unless there is a line separating the two parts.

```md title="example.md"
The following input:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! note "Title"
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
    nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
    massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

Will be (incorrectly) formatted by Prettier as:

!!! note "Title" Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla
et euismod nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus
auctor massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

Which will not be displayed properly.
```

The workaround is to ensure that you have a newline between the two parts of the
admonition.

### Prettier vs GitHub Markdown Alerts

A
[GitHub Markdown Alert](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#alerts)
is written in Markdown like this:

```md
> [!NOTE]
>
> Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
> nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
> massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.
```

MkDocs will happily render the alert whether or not there is a line (with `>`)
separating the `[!NOTE]` and the actual note, but Prettier will incorrectly
format this alert unless there is a line separating the two parts.

```md title="example.md"
The following input:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
> [!NOTE]
> Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
> nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
> massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

Will be (incorrectly) formatted by Prettier as:

> [!NOTE] Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et
> euismod nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus
> auctor massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

Which will not be displayed properly.
```

The workaround is to ensure that you have a line with `>` between the two parts
of the alert.

[MkDocs Awesome Pages]:
  https://github.com/lukasgeiter/mkdocs-awesome-pages-plugin/#features
[Table Reader]: https://timvink.github.io/mkdocs-table-reader-plugin/
[markdownlint]: https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint#configuration
[prettier-ignores]: https://prettier.io/docs/ignore#markdown

Commit message:

docs: Add link to open prettier-issue

docs/images/techdocs.md, after:

# Backstage TechDocs Engineering Image

The image contains the full suite of tools required to publish a TechDocs site
in Inventory.

## Usage

The image is designed to run in a repository containing TechDocs.

### Docker compose configuration

Add a `devtools/techdocs.yaml` file to the repository.

```yaml title="devtools/techdocs.yaml"
services:
  techdocs:
    build:
      dockerfile: techdocs.Dockerfile
    working_dir: /srv/workspace
    environment:
      GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: ${GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS:-}
      GCLOUD_PROJECT: ${GCLOUD_PROJECT:-}
    volumes:
      - ../:/srv/workspace:z
      - ${XDG_CACHE_HOME:-xdg-cache-home}:/root/.cache
      - $HOME/.config/gcloud:/root/.config/gcloud
      - ${GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS:-nothing}:${GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS:-/tmp/empty-GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS}
    ports:
      - "127.0.0.1:3000:3000/tcp"
      - "127.0.0.1:8000:8000/tcp"
    command: serve
volumes:
  xdg-cache-home: {}
  nothing: {}
```

```yaml title="docker-compose.yaml"
include:
  - devtools/techdocs.yaml
```

```Dockerfile title="devtools/Dockerfile"
FROM ghcr.io/coopnorge/engineering-docker-images/e0/techdocs:latest@sha256:68ce8f1b1745d587dbd542b1e8d4974eacf513ea2adffa1d566e76cca071417c
```

### Running a preview site

```bash
docker compose up techdocs
```

Open your browser at <http://localhost:3000/docs/default/component/local/>

### List targets

```bash
docker compose run --rm techdocs help
```

## Writing documentation

### Toolbox

- [TechDocs](https://backstage.io/docs/features/techdocs/)
- [MKDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/)

  MKDocs Plugins:

  - [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/)
  - [MkDocs Awesome Pages]
  - [EZLinks](https://github.com/orbikm/mkdocs-ezlinks-plugin)
  - [Kroki](https://kroki.io/)
  - [Table Reader]

- [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- [markdownlint](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint#configuration)
- [Vale](https://vale.sh/)

### Render table data from files

[Table Reader] can render data from `.csv`, `.fwf`, `.json`, `.xlsx`, `.yaml`
and `.tsv` files.

To load a `.csv` file use:

<code>\{\{ read_csv('path_to_table.csv') \}\}</code>

The `path_to_table.csv` is relative to the `docs/` directory in the repository.

## Customize navigation

See [MkDocs Awesome Pages]

## Ignoring rules

Prettier, markdownlint and Vale define rules for style and spelling. Sometimes
rules needs to be broken.

Prettier can be ignored for a specific line or range, by inserting a markdown
comment. For more information see the official [Prettier
ignoring-documentation][prettier-ignores].

```md title="markdown.md"
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
Do   not    format   this

Do format this

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- SOMETHING AUTO-GENERATED BY TOOLS - START -->

| MY | AWESOME | AUTO-GENERATED | TABLE |
|-|-|-|-|
| a | b | c | d |

<!-- SOMETHING AUTO-GENERATED BY TOOLS - END -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
```

markdownlint rules can be controlled by line and for sections. For more
information see the official [markdownlint documentation][markdownlint].

- Disable all rules: `<!-- markdownlint-disable -->`
- Enable all rules: `<!-- markdownlint-enable -->`
- Disable all rules for the current line: `<!-- markdownlint-disable-line -->`
- Disable all rules for the next line: `<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line -->`
- Disable one or more rules by name: `<!-- markdownlint-disable MD001 MD005 -->`
- Enable one or more rules by name: `<!-- markdownlint-enable MD001 MD005 -->`
- Disable one or more rules by name for the current line:
  `<!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD001 MD005 -->`
- Disable one or more rules by name for the next line:
  `<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD001 MD005 -->`
- Capture the current rule configuration: `<!-- markdownlint-capture -->`
- Restore the captured rule configuration: `<!-- markdownlint-restore -->`

Vale rules case be controlled by section, for more information see the official
[Vale documentation](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/config/#markdown-amp-html).

```md title="markdown.md"
<!-- vale off -->

This is some text

more text here...

<!-- vale on -->

<!-- vale Style.Rule = NO -->

This is some text

<!-- vale Style.Rule = YES -->
```

## Known problems and workarounds

### Prettier vs MkDocs Admonitions

An
[admonition](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/)
is written in Markdown like this:

```md
!!! note "Title"

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
    nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
    massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.
```

MkDocs will happily render the admonition whether or not there is a line
separating the `!!! note` and the actual note, but Prettier will incorrectly
format this admonition unless there is a line separating the two parts.

```md title="example.md"
The following input:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! note "Title"
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
    nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
    massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

Will be (incorrectly) formatted by Prettier as:

!!! note "Title" Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla
et euismod nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus
auctor massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

Which will not be displayed properly.
```

The workaround is to ensure that you have a newline between the two parts of the
admonition.

### Prettier vs GitHub Markdown Alerts

A
[GitHub Markdown Alert](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#alerts)
is written in Markdown like this:

```md
> [!NOTE]
>
> Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
> nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
> massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.
```

MkDocs will happily render the alert whether or not there is a line (with `>`)
separating the `[!NOTE]` and the actual note, but Prettier will incorrectly
format this alert unless there is a line separating the two parts.

```md title="example.md"
The following input:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
> [!NOTE]
> Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
> nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
> massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

Will be (incorrectly) formatted by Prettier as:

> [!NOTE] Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et
> euismod nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus
> auctor massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

Which will not be displayed properly.
```

The workaround is to ensure that you have a line with `>` between the two parts
of the alert, or to use an ignore-comment to tell Prettier to no format the
part. There is an
[open issue](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/15479) on Prettier's
Github to track this problem.

[MkDocs Awesome Pages]:
  https://github.com/lukasgeiter/mkdocs-awesome-pages-plugin/#features
[Table Reader]: https://timvink.github.io/mkdocs-table-reader-plugin/
[markdownlint]: https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint#configuration
[prettier-ignores]: https://prettier.io/docs/ignore#markdown
